.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2017 BAE Systems
.\"
.\"
.TH channel_receive 3
.SH NAME
channel_receive, channel_receive_to_file, xambit_parcel_hdr_t \- Receive a block of data from a xambit channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <xambit.h>
.sp
.BI "int channel_receive(xambit_channel_t * " ch ", void ** " buf ", xambit_parcel_hdr_t ** " header " );
.sp
.BI "int channel_receive_to_file(xambit_channel_t * " ch ", const char * " path ", int " oflags ", mode_t " omode " );
.sp

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions \fBchannel_receive\fR and \fBchannel_receive_to_file\fR are used
to receive data from the xambit_channel_t * \fIch\fR. \fBchannel_receive\fR will
allocate memory for the received data and return it to the caller in \fIbuf\fR.
It is up to the caller to \fBfree\fR(2) the data. The length, and type ID of the data in
\fIbuf\fR will be returned in \fIheader\fR. \fBchannel_receive\fR will allocate
the memory for the header; the caller must \fBfree\fR(2).  The 
xambit_parcel_hdr_t structure contains the following fields:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct xambit_parcel_hdr_t {
    uint32_t	version;  	/* Version ID of this structure - must be 1 */
    uint32_t	type;		/* User defined type ID */
    uint32_t	flags;		/* Flags - Reserved */
    uint64_t	length;		/* Size in bytes of data buffer*/
    uint32_t	hdr_checksum;	/* Checksum of this header */
};
.fi
.in
.PP
The \fBchannel_receive_to_file\fR function will save the received data to the
file specified by \fIpath\fR. The file given by \fIpath\fR will be opened by
\fBopen\fR(2) using the flags and mode given by \fIoflags\fR and \fIomode\fR. 
.PP
Before any data is returned to the caller or written to a file, the data is
passed to the validator routine that has been registered for the \fItype\fR ID
given in \fIheader\fR. If the validator routine does not pass the data, no
memory will be allocated. 
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, 0 is returned. On failure, a negetive number is returned. See the
ERRORS section of this man page for specific error conditions. 
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_STD  (-1)
A standard system call or library routine such as \fBopen\fR or \fBwrite\fR
returned an error. Use \fIerrno\fR to get the specific failure. 
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_CHKSUM  (-2)
Header checksum error
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_VALIDATE  (-3)
The validation routine determined the data is not safe to receive.
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_BAD_TYPE  (-4)
The \fItid\fR has not been registered as a valid type for this channel.
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_HDR_VER  (-5)
The received header contained an incompatible version number.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR channel_register_type (3)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2017 BAE Systems. All rights reserved.
