.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2017 BAE Systems
.\"
.\"
.TH channel_send 3
.SH NAME
channel_send, channel_send_file \- Send a data buffer or file across a xambit channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <xambit.h>
.sp
.BI "int channel_send(xambit_channel_t * " ch ", void * " buf ", size_t " size ", unsigned int " tid " );
.sp
.BI "int channel_send_file(xambit_channel_t * " ch ", const char * " path ", unsigned int " tid " );
.sp

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBchannel_send()\fR functions are used to send data across the xambit
channel \fIch\fR. For \fBchannel_send\fR, the data to be sent is located in a
buffer pointed by by \fIbuf\fR. The caller must also pass the size of the buffer
in \fIsize\fR. \fBchannel_send_file\fR will send the file given by \fIpath\fR.
Both functions will send the entire data block at before returning. 
.PP
The type ID of the data must be given by the \fItid\fR field. This is a user
defined value that will determine which validation routine will be run on the
data prior to being sent. Both the sender and receiver should agree on what
these values are.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success these functions will return 0; On failure, a negetive value is
returned. See the next section for a list of possible failure conditions.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_STD (-1)
A standard system call or library routine such as \fBopen\fR or \fBwrite\fR
returned an error. Use \fIerrno\fR to get the specific failure. 
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_VALIDATE (-3)
The validation routine determined the data is not safe to send.
.TP
.BR XAMBIT_ERR_BAD_TYPE (-4)
The \fItid\fR has not been registered as a valid type for this channel.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR channel_register_type (3)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2017 BAE Systems. All rights reserved.
